---
date: 
title: 03 Treesitter
---
- Status: proposed
- Deciders: Serggio Pizzella, Luuk Horsman.
- Informed: Erik Schriek.
## Context and Problem Statement
With the decision to build on top of an existing YAML grammar using a parser generator, [[02-create-a-custom-parser]], the next step is to select the most suitable parser generator for this project.
## Considered Options

1. **Existing YAML Grammar Availability**: The parser generator must have a reliable, existing YAML grammar that can be extended for Azure-specific syntax.
1. **Performance**: The parser generated by the tool must be performant, providing efficient parsing suited for real-time feedback during editing.
1. **Language and Tooling Integration**: Should integrate well with multiple languages and offer strong support for debugging, allowing flexibility in development choices and efficient troubleshooting.
1. **Documentation and Tutorials**: Comprehensive documentation and tutorials should be available to aid with setup, usage, and customization.

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option: "{title of option 1}", because {justification. e.g., only option, which meets k.o. criterion decision driver | which resolves force {force} | … | comes out best (see below)}.

<!-- This is an optional element. Feel free to remove. -->
### Consequences

* Good, because {positive consequence, e.g., improvement of one or more desired qualities, …}
* Bad, because {negative consequence, e.g., compromising one or more desired qualities, …}
* … <!-- numbers of consequences can vary -->